---
layout: post
title:  "~`Art Nerd`~"
date:   2017-03-18 00:45:31 -0400
---


An Art History professor I had in college was the spark for a series of decisions that led me to start learning software development. Professor Damluji taught the Art and Architecture of Islam and, after taking her course on architecture, it was an easy choice to opt into her Mediating Islam course. In that course - yes, still Art History - we were assigned news segments and Netflix shows to watch and Twitter accounts, comics, and magazines to read alongside the usual academic texts. She traced the history of the US's relationship with the Muslim world through contemporary visual culture and media, not just so-called art objects. Later, she and I would work on projects regarding cyber security and hacking. It was through her that my idea of what can be studied in Art History was expanded into the web. 

I continued learning about tech and the internet as art while teaching and researching in museums. There, I found more and more artists using online platforms and aesthetics in their work, challenging and exploring the impact of the digital in our physical and emotional world. I could research and teach about their work to all ages, but the enigma of process continued to elude me. Work by artists like Sang Mun, Sondra Perry, Ben Grosser, and Grayson Earle that explores digital exchange was always exciting to me, but unlike performance, paintings, and sculpture, I had never learned how their medium worked. It felt irresponsible to write and study and write about their work in the same way as I did more traditional media because I didn't actually understand it beyond its cultural impact and context. Even when I got involved in the creation of a VR game, my only contributions were my guache illustrations. I could write about performances like /VANITAS/ that critiqued our relationship with social media, but I didn't know who or what was making these platforms run they way they do. Going to places like Eyebeam's MVR series or to the conference Theorizing the Web pointed to the separation between my skills in visual and cultural analysis and my ability to actually partake and understand what was being produced. 

It was when I read an article by Jenna Wortham, a tech writer for the New York Times, that I really made up my mind to learn programming. At the time, I was working for an artist in seaside Connecticut, cleaning brushes, building boxes, swimming, and refilling birdfeeders. My intention was to mediate the creative process for someone who actually knows what they want their work to do and look like until I could figure out what my own work was supposed to look like. I was also living with three computer programmers at the time, always jealous and curious about what they were producing. In the article, "Finding Inspiration for Art in the Betrayal of Privacy," Wortham discusses an exhibition of work examining cyber security. Of course, her job here is to convey the meaning of the pieces and their context, which she always does phenomenally. Nonetheless, I still found myself obsessing helplessly over how these artists could really collect, arrange, and present data in such interesting ways. I wanted to do it myself! As an arts educator, I not only wanted to really understand, speak about, and engage with emerging forms, I wanted to create them. 

I spent the next few months looking for ways to start learning. I took Codecademy, my mentor gave me his Lynda login, I read Eloquent Javascript, and I researched and applied to schools. Flatiron always stood out as a reputable school and my friends in tech highly recommended it. Less inspirational, more logistical: I had to fund this education and arts educators make meager earnings in case you haven't heard. So, when Birchbox and Flatiron teamed up to give scholarships to women, I jumped on the opportunity. With additional generosity from friends and family, here I am today. 

It's likely that these goals and intentions will change as I go through this program, but I've already noticed my ways of thinking and seeing expand.



